In this lesson, I'm going to cover some of the details of the IWC Certified Solutions Architects associate
exam now each IWC exam has a code.
The current version of the Solutions Architects Association exam is the SIAC zero two.
Ultimately, what you want to achieve and the reason you're here today is a certification like the one
on the screen here.
Now I can guarantee you whatever your background with the resources available in this course, as well
as the help available free forms such as our Slack channel and our Facebook group, you will be able
to achieve your certification.
So let's go over some of the details of this exam now.
Firstly, the level is associates eight.
We have a tiered model with roll based indications.
At the bottom they have the cloud practitioner, which is a foundational level certification.
Then at the associate level, you have the IWC Certified Solutions Architects Associate, the Developer
Associates and the cis ops associates.
At the top, you have the professional level where you have the solutions architect, professional and
the DevOps professional.
Then there are some specialty certifications that kind of sit on the side and then more of a deep dive
into particular topics and knowledge areas like security and advanced networking and machine learning
and so on.
Now, even though this is somewhere in the middle in terms of difficulty, it is open to people who
do not have a background in cloud computing, and plenty of people have passed the exam coming through
our courses with no background in cloud computing at all.
The length of the exam is thirty minutes and there are sixty five questions in the exam which are multiple
choice or multiple response.
We'll talk more about that in a moment.
The cost is one hundred and fifty US dollars.
Now, if you have passed an IWC certification exam before, like the cloud practitioner, for example,
then you should have a discount voucher you can use to get a 50 percent discount.
The delivery method is ever going to a testing centre if it's available near you, or you can do an
online proctored exam for scoring.
It's a scale scoring system between 100 and a thousand points, and the minimum passing score is seven
hundred twenty points, so it's 72 percent.
Now there is some recommended knowledge this comes straight from IWC.
They ask for one year of hands on experience with IWC technology experience deploying, managing and
operating workloads on IWC.
Familiarity with the management console and the command line interface.
And an understanding of various technology areas and architectural frameworks and the global infrastructure
of IWC.
And also the ability to identify which services to use to meet a given requirement.
Now, even though that's what they ask for coming into the exam, it's not what you need coming into
this course.
Coming into this course, if you don't know any of this, that's fine if you have never used IWC before.
That's not a problem.
This course will give you these skills.
So though it's not going to take you a year to complete, you will get plenty of hands on experience
with IWC technology.
If you follow along with a hands on lessons in this course, we also make sure that all of the knowledge
areas are within the course and whenever the exam evolves, as it does over time, we add new lessons
and we modify lessons as we need to to make sure it always has all the content you need.
The question format is multiple choice and multiple response.
With multiple choice, you'll have full answers and you need to select the one correct answer with multiple
response.
You'll typically have five or six answers and you need to select two or more, and it's always very
clear in the exam exactly how many answers you need to supply.
There is no hands on testing with the SAIC zero two.
It's purely questions and answers.
No hands on required.
Now let's go through the exam in a bit more detail in terms of what knowledge is required.
Now, the white IWC organized their exam material is into domains.
There are four domains in the Solutions Architects Association exam.
The first one is design resilient architectures.
You need to know how to design a multi-tiered architecture solution, design highly available and or
fault tolerant architectures, and design decoupling mechanisms.
Using IWC services, you also need to know how to choose the appropriate resilient storage.
All of these concepts are covered in lots of detail in this course, including in lots of hands on lessons.
Domain two is design high performing architectures.
You need to identify elastic and scalable compute solutions for a workload.
Select high performing and scalable storage solutions for a workload.
Selects high performing networking solutions for a workload, and choose high performing database solutions
for a workload.
Performance.
It's a very important characteristic of the architecture as we build on IWC and has lots of variables
involved.
So what you need to understand for each service, what are these variables?
How can you adjust performance and often you need to understand what is the cost implication of that
as well?
The free is designed, secure applications and architectures.
You need to know how to design secure access to resources.
So authentication and authorization design secure application tiers selects appropriate data security
options like file system access and encryption.
Domain form is design cost optimized architectures.
You need to know how to identify cost effective storage solutions, cost effective compute and database
services, and cost optimized network architectures.
As a solutions architect, you'll regularly be asked to make sure that your solutions are low in cost.
But if you want them to be highly secure and high performing and highly resilient, often that imposes
cost.
Now what you need to know for the exam is you need to understand those variables, so you need to understand
the trade offs between them and when it's appropriate to lower the cost or when performance or security
might be more important.
And in the questions in the exam, they'll always make it very clear what they're looking for.
Are they looking for the best performing solution, the most resilient solution or the lowest cost solution?
So side by side, we've got the main one, which is 30 percent of the exam domain to comprises 28 percent
of the exam domain, free 24 percent and domain for 18 percent.
And if you'd like a bit more information about the exam, including some links to white papers and other
free resources which we recommend, I've added a link to this lesson, which takes you to the main page
for this certification.
On there, you'll find those links and also the exam guide as well.